# Tutorial_Project_template

Hello BIOL 364/ Cancer Biology students! Here we will demonstrate through one specific example the power of combining computational or data science with research advancements that might we typically associate with results of wet lab science.  We can acknowledge and appreciate organizing, manipulating, and viewing data can provide important insights about active hypotheses as well as drive the generation of new hypotheses.  R is a widely used statistical computing software that you all have been exposed to in your introductory biology courses.  We understand that you are all not "experts", but have the basic tools and the general lay-of-the-land for R to allow you to follow along when new code is introduced and explained.

In this tutorial we will delve into publicly available neuroblastoma data (TARGET dataset, John M. Maris). One important oncogene in neuroblastoma is MYCN and in 20-30% of cases patients have focal amplification of this gene.  In the TARGET dataset we will explore if whether MYCN is amplified or nonamplified has a significant effect on thigns like patient survival or length of survival as way as several other relevant survival-based question.  

To access this tutorial you need to locate the repository called Tutorial_Project_7 under the Bucknell-Biol364.  Select the green "Code" button at the top right and select "Download ZIP".  Once thee repository is downloaded, select the file "Neuroblastoma_Tutorial.Rmd".  From there, we have selected several packages that we will be necessary throughout the tutorial so run this first (Lines 9-16) and load in the dataset (Lines 41-45) by running that code chunk as well.  

Now you're ready to being going through our guided exploration, visualization, and hypothesis testing for four different reserach questions related to the TARGET neuroblastoma dataset.  Run each code chunk one at a time while reading the explanations above: our thoughts, observations, and explanations of the process! We hope this tutorial gives you a good sense of some of the awesome capabilities of R that can be used when first diving into a dataset.  Hopefully it is also apparent that translational cancer research progression is closely tied to updates in the availble patient data and statistics.   